# Guiding Principles

Fluck is not a fling. We've held this vision for over a decade, waiting for the
right moment. Now, with many creative entrepreneurs frustrated with existing
platforms, we think the time is right.

Building a new platform for the community is no small feat. It requires solid
guidelines to ensure we don't deviate from our path. The Guiding Principles
below serve that purpose. Not lofty promises from the founders, but a toolkit
to help everyone involved reach the destination we set out for at the start.

## The Principles

### 01. Enough is enough

Stay small, maintainable, and focused. When growth threatens quality, pause and
refocus. Human-scale progress is the path to sustainability.

### 02. Freedom of movement

You can't please everyone. If it's not a match, anyone should be able to grab
their bag of data and move out. No lock-ins, ever.

### 03. Stay lean

Every feature must serve creative people directly. Avoid bloat and listen to
real user needs.

### 04. Accessible by design

Embrace inclusivity from the start.
[WCAG](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_Content_Accessibility_Guidelines)
compliance is the baseline, not the goal. Consider all abilities and devices.
Everybody should feel welcome.

### 05. Stay independent

No selling out, no external pressure. The right partner might help someday, but
there's no exit strategy.

### 06. Operate transparently

Share how things work. Open communication, clear decisions, honest pricing. No
surprise fees, no hidden commissions, no dubious changes.

### 07. Be stable, be boring

Reliability matters most. No changes for change's sake. Improve deliberately,
keeping things dependably solid.

### 08. Resist the hype

Only adopt what clearly benefits real users. Favour proven technology over
whatever's hot.

### 09. Give back

Open-source the code, support key software, and build a community for makers
helping makers.

### 10. Build for sustainability

Create a sustainable, independent business, built to last and grow thoughtfully
with its users.

### 11. Usability first

Simple, powerful, and easy to learn. Keep it clear and light, so creators can
focus on what they do best.

### 12. Celebrate originality

Protect every maker's voice and authorship. Genuine, tangible, human-made work
is at the heart.

### 13. Community at the core

Creatives thrive together. Build a supportive network for sharing,
collaboration, and inspiration. A true community, not mere transactions.

### 14. Keep it human

Foster direct, authentic connections between makers and buyers. No algorithm
manipulation, no race to the bottom.

## Not set in stone

This document will evolve over time. Some sections may be fine-tuned or
clarified, and new sections may be added. But the spirit will always remain the
same.

If you're interested in the history of this document, it's publicly available
in this repository on GitHub.

_**Version 0.1**_
_Last updated 07 July 2025 at 11:56._
